Add decisions regarding user names (#12)
appuio/appuio-io-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/explanation/decisions/usernames.adoc

* Use the `ID` property of Keycloak user objects.
+
With this approach, users can freely change their `Username` in Keycloak.
+
However, their `Username` doesn't appear anywhere in the OpenShift cluster with this approach and the output of `oc whoami` is the Keycloak user's `ID`.

* Use the `Email` property of Keycloak user objects.
+
With this approach, users can't change their E-Mail address after signing up, for the same reasons as they can't change their `Username` property when using that property (see first alternative).

Decision::
We use the `Username` property of Keycloak user objects as the name for the resulting OpenShift `User` objects

Rationale::

Regardless of the choice of identifier to determine how the OpenShift `User` object is named, the user's identity in the OpenShift cluster is always tied to their Keycloak user's `ID` property.
This is because Openshift's OpenID Connect identity provider uses the OpenID claim `sub` to establish the user's identity, see the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/authentication/identity_providers/configuring-oidc-identity-provider.html[OpenShift documentation].

> The OpenID claim `sub` is mapped to the Keycloak user's `ID` by default.

Reviewer: I would move this to the supporting information in the Problem section, as it doesn't directly influence the decision.

= `User` object names in the OpenShift cluster

Problem::
We need to define an identifier which we use to name users which are synchronized from Keycloak to the OpenShift cluster.
+
The identifier should have the following properties:
+
* It should be stable for the lifetime of the user in Keycloak.
* It must be suitable for use as an OpenShift resource name (namely for the OpenShift `User` resource)

> * It must be used to configure OpenShift `Group` membership when synchronizing groups from Keycloak.

Reviewer: I would actually put those requirements into their own documents and refer to them via links.
`It should be stable for the lifetime of the user in Keycloak.` looks to be like requirement independent from any technology, so I guess it goes into the Usability category (this problem is actually independent of Keycloak itself).

The other two are depending/coupled to Keycloak and OpenShift, so I would propose to document those as functional requirements.
Right now, we don't have functional requirements documented yet, but it could be written as a Gherkin scenario that we already use in our Jira Stories. However, for the time being it's fine to leave them as is until we have a good template for functional requirements.

Author: I've added `docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/quality-requirements/usability/user-arbitrary-name.adoc` (allowing users to choose arbitrary user names is clearly a usability requirement) and `docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/quality-requirements/usability/user-name-stable.adoc`. However, I'm not sure from what perspective username stability can be considered a usability requirement.

* Use the `ID` property of Keycloak user objects.
+
With this approach, users can freely change their `Username` in Keycloak.
+
However, their `Username` doesn't appear anywhere in the OpenShift cluster with this approach and the output of `oc whoami` is the Keycloak user's `ID`.
Additionally, group synchronization from Keycloak to OpenShift will require a custom implementation to create `Group` objects which are populated with the group members' `ID` properties, as the group-sync operator currently only supports using the Keycloak user's `Username` field when creating `Group` objects.

* Use the `Email` property of Keycloak user objects.
+
With this approach, users can't change their E-Mail address after signing up, for the same reasons as they can't change their `Username` property when using that property (see first alternative).

Decision::
* We use the `Username` property of Keycloak user objects as the name for the resulting OpenShift `User` objects
* We allow users to freely choose their `Username` when signing up

> * We disallow users to change their `Username` after creation of the user in Keycloak

Author: I'm not sure if it makes sense to have all of these in a single document, or if we should split them out

Reviewer: I kinda agree. The `We use the Username property of Keycloak user objects as the name for the resulting OpenShift User objects` decision makes sense, the other two are separate.

Rationale::

Regardless of the choice of identifier to determine how the OpenShift `User` object is named, the user's identity in the OpenShift cluster is always tied to their Keycloak user's `ID` property.
This is because Openshift's OpenID Connect identity provider uses the OpenID claim `sub` to establish the user's identity, see the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/authentication/identity_providers/configuring-oidc-identity-provider.html[OpenShift documentation].
The OpenID claim `sub` is mapped to the Keycloak user's `ID` by default.
+
For all described alternatives, Keycloak can be configured to require that the property must be unique per realm.
Therefore, we don't risk having OpenShift `User` objects which are associated with multiple Keycloak users with any of the described alternatives.
+
First, we decide to use the `Username` property as the identifier used for the OpenShift `User` object.
This choice provides the best trade-off in our eyes, as it allows users to change their E-Mail address at any time and it shows users a human-verifiable output when running `oc whoami`.
+

> Second, we decide to allow users to freely choose their `Username` when signing up.

Reviewer: This sentence doesn't provide the reason why we chose it like this.
```suggestion
Second, allowing users to freely choose their `Username` when signing up increases user experience since they can choose a memorable name they like.
```

+
Third, we decide to disallow users to change their `Username` after creation of the user in Keycloak.
If a user needs to change their `Username`, we recommend that they register a new user with the desired `Username` and add the new user to the appropriate organizations.

> In the future, we may decide find a solution to allow users to change the `Username` property of their user without having to register a new user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the future, we may decide to find a solution to allow users to change the `Username` property of their user without having to register a new user.
```

> One potential approach for such a solution could be to implement extra tooling which fully synchronizes changes to a Keycloak user into the user's associated OpenShift `Identity` and `User` objects.

Reviewer: I would not document this here resp. only when we find the need to review our decision. The documentation shouldn't provide insights into the future to avoid making potentially false hopes.
